
	CREATIVE COMMENTS
	-----------------
	For this project, Marcus Wachter and Max Waelbers created a typeface called Harmony. In this project the designers explored censorship within China. The designers found out about a list of search terms that are being censored on the net. Within the exploring of of this area of interest, they also found out about a list of books that are banned or were previously banned in China. One these examples was Alice in Wonderland. It was banned in the beginning of 1931 for its portrayal of anthropomorphized animals acting on the same level of complexity as human beings. The censor General Ho Chien believed that attributing human language to animals was an insult to humans. He feared that the book would teach children to regard humans and animals on the same level, which would be "disastrous." 

	The designers used this book as a type specimen for the method that they developed. 
	The typeface is illegible and refers to the imagery of Alice in Wonderland, for this the team used the original illustrations from the publication of 1865. A excerpt of the list of banned words was used and incorporated in the typeface. When the user types these words in the typeface, a ligature forms. The ligatures are scannable with an mobile app called Aurasma. When scanned the physical form is complemented by a digital layer which provides sensitive content concerning the context and deeper meaning of the censored words. The designers chose to use Augmented Reality because it is a new and interesting way of hiding information that would otherwise be easily intercepted by algorithms or the human eye. The use of AR is also a reference to the thematics of Alice in Wonderland, in which a young girl enters a delusional fantasy world. This project was not intented to necessarily provide a solution for the censorship problem in China, but rather broach the subject and stimulate change. 
